Docs: Document `cssChunking` option (#67691)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/02-api-reference/05-next-config-js/cssChunking.mdx

---

> title: cssChunking (Experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: cssChunking (experimental)
```

Author: Hm, Stales Times is capitalized wrong, and Partial Prerendering should be ppr.

Author: Looks like I already fixed this in the RC docs 😅

description: Use the `cssChunking` option to control how CSS files are chunked in your Next.js application.
---

CSS Chunking is a strategy used to improve the performance of your web application by splitting and re-ordering CSS files into chunks. This allows you to load only the CSS that is needed for a specific route, instead of loading all the application's CSS at once.

You can control how CSS files are chunked using the `experimental.cssChunking` option in your `next.config.js` file:

```tsx filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    cssChunking: 'loose', // default
  },
} satisfies NextConfig

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    cssChunking: 'loose', // default
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Options

> - **`'loose'` (default)**: Next.js will try to merge CSS files whenever possible, guessing the dependencies between files to reduce the number of chunks and therefore the number of requests.

Reviewer: Maybe "guessing" isn't the write literal word here <picture data-single-emoji=":thinkies:" title=":thinkies:"><img class="emoji" width="20" height="auto" src="https://emoji.slack-edge.com/T0CAQ00TU/thinkies/d164ba479fed9c0d.png" alt=":thinkies:" align="absmiddle"></picture>

Author: It's used in the code comments, struggled with explaining this, open to suggestions for alternatives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`'loose'` (default)**: Next.js will try to merge CSS files whenever possible, determining explicit and implicit dependencies between files from import order to reduce the number of chunks and therefore the number of requests.
```

Reviewer 2: ``` md
- **`'strict'`**: Next.js will merge CSS files based on the order they are imported into your application. When the order differs between routes it will lead more chunks and requests.

- **`'strict'`**: Next.js will merge CSS files in the correct order they are imported into your application, which can lead to more chunks and requests.

> You may consider using `'strict'` if you run into CSS issues where the order of CSS files is important. However, we recommend using `'loose'` for most applications, as it leads to fewer requests and better performance.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should use `strict` because something with the ordering of the CSS. I think it's more because if the "loose" merging resulting in an edge case that broke somebody's CSS (but that doesn't necessarily mean it broke the order).

Author: What are the cases when "loose" might break someone's CSS?

Reviewer 2: > What are the cases when "loose" might break someone's CSS?

When page 1 imports a.css and b.css in that order and page 2 imports b.css and a.css in that order.

Loose mode would merge that together in any order, assuming there is no dependency between these two css files.

Strict mode would not merge them together and loads them in a -> b on page 1 and b -> a on page 2.

Note that this scenario only makes sense if there is no client side navigation possible between page 1 and page 2, since client side navigation won't change existing stylesheet, so it won't reorder the stylesheets when navigating from page 1 to 2.

Author: thank you for the context, this is very helpful!

---

CSS Chunking is a strategy used to improve the performance of your web application by splitting and re-ordering CSS files into chunks. This allows you to load only the CSS that is needed for a specific route, instead of loading all the application's CSS at once.

You can control how CSS files are chunked using the `experimental.cssChunking` option in your `next.config.js` file:

```tsx filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    cssChunking: 'loose', // default
  },
} satisfies NextConfig

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    cssChunking: 'loose', // default
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Options

- **`'loose'` (default)**: Next.js will try to merge CSS files whenever possible, determining explicit and implicit dependencies between files from import order to reduce the number of chunks and therefore the number of requests.
- **`'strict'`**: Next.js will load CSS files in the correct order they are imported into your files, which can lead to more chunks and requests.

> You may consider using `'strict'` if you run into unexpected CSS behavior. For example, if you import `a.css` and `b.css` in different files using a different `import` order (`a` before `b`, or `b` before `a`), `'loose'` will merge the files in any other and assume there are no dependencies between them. However, if `b.css` depends on `a.css`, you may want to use `'strict'` to prevent the files from being merged, and instead, load them in the order they are imported - which can result in more chunks and requests.

Reviewer 3: @delbaoliveira Sorry for randomly appearing in a merged PR, but I'm guessing there is a typo here.

"will merge the files in any **other**" should most likely be "will merge the files in any **order**".
